And in production to the book of Galatians, the Apostle Paul wrote this letter during or
after his second missionary tour, either from Corinth or from Syrian Antioch.
Although he usually used the secretary to write his letters, Paul himself wrote the letter
to the Galatians. Galatians was written about 50 to 52 CE. Did you know? Galatia was the
Roman province that occupied the central portion of what is now known as Asia Minor. The Galatian
congregations to whom Paul wrote may have included the ones in Pesidian Antioch, Iconium,
Lystra, and Derby. Paul used this letter to counteract the work of false teachers who were
asserting that observance of the Mosaic law was an essential part of true Christianity.
The letter to the Galatians has six chapters. In chapter 1, Paul relates his own experience
of conversion from Judaism to Christianity. He reminds the Galatians that what he has taught
them came through a revelation by Jesus Christ and that they should not deviate from it.
In chapters 2 and 3, Paul reasons that works of law cannot make one righteous. He calls
the law a guardian that led people to the Christ. It is faith in Jesus that makes one righteous.
Paul identifies Abraham's spiritual offspring as Christ and those who are heirs with Christ.
The Galatians, though, are in danger of becoming enslaved to the teachings of men, Paul warns in
chapters 4 to 6. In chapter 4, Paul introduces a symbolic drama using the example of Hegar and
Sarah and their children, Ishmael and Isaac. Hegar and Ishmael correspond with enslaved earthly
Jerusalem and her children or citizens. Sarah and Isaac correspond with the Jerusalem above,
the heavenly part of Jehovah's organization, and her children, the spirit anointed and free
sons of God. That freedom, however, should not be used as an excuse to pursue a sinful course, Paul
cautions. He contrasts the works of the flesh with the fruitage of God's spirit and he teaches
that we reap what we sow. As you read the letter to the Galatians, note how Christians can be
declared righteous only by means of faith. How those who display the fruitage of God's spirit
reap benefits and how Abraham's spiritual offspring are identified as Christ Jesus and the joint
heirs of his everlasting kingdom.